## Indexing a matrix using index No.
someone suggest me to post answer of the homework so my blog will got more view. Nice idea. So here is a question(sligt changed version).
so assume we have an metrix, let's call it MATRIX: 
```{r}
MATRIX <-matrix(c("a","b","c","d","e","f"),2,3,byrow = T)
```
it will looks like this if we print it 
```{r}
     [,1] [,2] [,3]
[1,] "a"  "b"  "c" 
[2,] "d"  "e"  "f"
```
Now please note in the notation there are somthings we did not type but appear automatically in our data matrix, which are those markes with **[]** . 
That marks the row and column. Those markes(aka [,1] [,2] [,3][1,] [2,]) are the index for matrix. Consider they are sort of like your student ID num. 

for example, if you want to know what is in the frist *line* in this matrix, we will type:
```r
MATRIX[,1]
```
and R will response
```r
"a" "d"
```
That is all the elements in the line one of the matrix.

Now If your want to know what is in the second *row* in this matrix, we will type: 
```r
MATRIX[2,]
```
and R will response
```r
"d" "e" "f"
```
That is all the elements in the row two of the matrix.

Now if we want an output of "c" using MATRIX indexing, how do we do? 

...

...

...

TADA
```r
MATRIX[1,3]
```
## change matrix row using Indexing No. (this also works for Columns too)
To make things easier let's name line and row of this matrix:
```{r}
colnames(MATRIX) <- c("col1","col2","col3")
row.names(MATRIX) <- c("row1","row2")
```
The Matrix now looks like this:
```r
   col1 col2 col3
row1 "a"  "b"  "c" 
row2 "d"  "e"  "f"
```
Although those little []s disappear ,we can still extract elements use [,] method:
Now `MATRIX[,1]` will give us :
```r
row1 row2 
 "a"  "d" 
```
`MATRIX[2,]` will give us:
```r
col1 col2 col3 
 "d"  "e"  "f" 
```
`MATRIX[1,3]` will still out put "c"

Now we want **Reverse the order of the first and the second row.**
here is one line code solution:
```
MATRIX[,c(2,1)]
#output
    col1 col2 col3
row2 "d"  "e"  "f" 
row1 "a"  "b"  "c"
```
Note on this **displace** row2 come first. 
but if you type `MATRIX[2,]` now, it will still give us 
```r
col1 col2 col3 
 "d"  "e"  "f" 
```
To **save** (that is very very improtant) your revered results, redefine your displace order to your variable,aka:
```r
MATRIX <- MATRIX[,c(2,1)]
```
try to type  `MATRIX[2,]` now and see what will happen.

`c(2,1)` in this code is index number. SO code above can be also wrote as this :
```r
index.row <- c(2,1)
MATRIX <- MATRIX[,index.row ]
```

